---
layout: post
title: Week of Jan 13-19: On Goals, Once More With Specificity
categories: Run
date: 2020-01-20
---


The 16 week journey begins anew. I adjusted my intended training + schedule on account of a lingering upper respiratory malfeasance (which, per the literature provided by a healthcare provider, “is known as a cold”), which left me feeling less than confident fitness-wise and full of antibiotics. Feeling better but not 100% as I type, remaining congested and slightly obsessing over if that which I have mapped out is what I need to get me where I want to be...but where exactly do I wanna be?

I feel it important to include this tweet as smug affirmation that I am approaching things with the right mindframe:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">“Goals” and “Wants” are most certainly not the same thing. Everyone has “wants” but they only become “goals” when you make the decision that you are willing to do everything in your power to make them a reality.</p>&mdash; hansonsrun (@hansonsrun) <a href="https://twitter.com/hansonsrun/status/1217174566046502913?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Well said, Hansons. I intend to use your training in the future when I know I can take on the cumulative fatigue. Anyway...so, what do I want? The following training challenges present themselves:

## Afford myself the space to reaffirm that my interests matter

This will be the hardest piece. So easily have I allowed myself to crater to the inflexible nature of other’s needs (both realized and imagined) and placed other’s schedules before my own. Looking to change that by virtue of prioritizing training this winter and spring as it is something I would like to do. Mostly. At least in theory. I’d like this to be a thing I put an earnest effort towards, so...



## Take my effort, and dare I say myself, seriously

Maybe this seems like a continuation of the first want, but it feels different. I have not strung together a cohesive amount of training pointing towards a race (much less a race with a goal) in a number of years. Various reasons abound, but as of late it has become increasingly easier for me to dismiss and discard my own focus a few weeks in or before I even get started. Time to hunker down and focus. Stick to the plan, damnit (within reason, of course--adjusting for life and weather, etc. allow for some flexibility).



## Learn to fuel better for and on long runs

Never really deviated from a few types of gels. Would like to explore options. It would be nice to have a better handle on what to eat ahead of time as well. I know I can get by on part of a clif bar for runs up to about 10 miles, or at least I have been able to previously. This is when I reiterate my lifelong disdain for bananas. They are bad and gross.



## Increase water intake

Don’t wander about an office like I used to, which was always my defacto way of getting up and filling a water bottle multiple times throughout the day. Being mindful of upping my H20 feels like it goes hand and hand with...



## Decrease caffeine intake
I know from previous experience than cutting out afternoon coffee and only having one serving a day in the morning with breakfast led to more sound and restful sleep. I’ve been back in this routine for a few weeks now, and gosh are my afternoons a fucking drag! Been swapping in tea, and it is not the same. Don’t think this is a cut and dry thing but I do know my heartrate is generally lower on runs when my coffee intake is lower (so says my scientific research from this summer) which is another reason that such an awareness is worthwhile to my overall success.


## Cut down on greasy foods
Self explanatory. In previous training cycles, fried foods got the boot. I don’t like being hyper-aggressive with scrutinizing my diet, but it's another mindful component of small things adding up.

## Cut out alcohol last six weeks
Not like I drink all that often anymore, or ever really drank a lot.


## Race wants from the onset:

Get to the starting line healthy and strong.

Get to the finish line in one piece with something left in the tank.

Negative Split the thing.

Race-specific goals with arbitrary times to follow. I have a half marathon on my schedule in March to give me an idea of where I am at and what paces are realistic moving forward.

##  Week One (Jan 13-19) Notes:
Got through speed work (4x800), nervously so. Feeling out of tune with inner pace, hopefully can hone that skill once more. Long run was a bit too fast as I battled frozen snow and 40 MPH wind gusts. Fought the mental battle on the treadmill and...I don’t think I lost, but running faster in place indoors never feels like a win. I give up on working with shoes that just feel too damn big, so a pair of 8s arrive in the mail shortly. Should have stuck to my guns on what size works for me and not allow some annoyed they had to work salesperson get the best of me. Hrumph.

This coming week features 200s, miles at half marathon pace, and a double-digit long run. Looking to introduce some bodyweight exercises back into the fray as well. Away we go.
